# Papers Title / Abstract / Keywords

- Source: `d:\PRO\essays\papers`
- Generated: `2026-03-15 15:56:46`
- Files: `40` | Title: `40` | Abstract: `36` | Keywords: `10`

## 2008.00698v2.pdf
- Title: Anti-Bandit Neural Architecture Search for Model Defense
- Abstract: Deep convolutional neural networks (DCNNs) have dominated as the best performers in machine learning, but can be challenged by adversarial attacks. In this paper, we defend against adversarial attacks using neural architecture search (NAS) which is based on a comprehensive search of denoising blocks, weight-free operations, Gabor filters and convolutions. The resulting anti-bandit NAS (ABanditNAS) incorporates a new operation evaluation measure and search process based on the lower and upper confidence bounds (LCB and UCB). Unlike the conventional bandit algorithm using UCB for evaluation only, we use UCB to abandon arms for search efficiency and LCB for a fair competition between arms. Extensive
- Keywords: Neural Architecture Search (NAS), Bandit, Adversarial Defense

## 24 ICLR SWAP-NAS.pdf
- Title: SWAP-NAS: S AMPLE -W ISE ACTIVATION PATTERNS FOR ULTRA-FAST NAS
- Abstract: Training-free metrics (a.k.a. zero-cost proxies) are widely used to avoid resourceintensive neural network training, especially in Neural Architecture Search (NAS) Recent studies show that existing training-free metrics have several limitations, such as limited correlation and poor generalisation across different search spaces and tasks. Hence, we propose Sample-Wise Activation Patterns and its derivative, SW AP-Score, a novel high-performance training-free metric. It measures the expressivity of networks over a batch of input samples. The SW AP-Score is strongly correlated with ground-truth performance across various search spaces and tasks, outperforming 15 existing training-free metrics on NAS-Bench-101/201/301 and TransNAS-Bench-101. The SW AP-Score can be further enhanced by regularisation, which leads to even higher correlations in cell-based search space and enables model size control during the search. For example, Spearman’s rank correlation coefficient between regularised SW AP-Score and CIFAR-100 validation accuracies on NAS-Bench-201 networks is 0.90, significantly higher than 0.80 from the second-best metric, NWOT

## 25 ICLR NEAR.pdf
- Title: NEAR: A T RAINING -FREE PRE-ESTIMATOR OF MACHINE LEARNING MODEL PERFORMANCE Raphael T. Husistein, Markus Reiher, and Marco Eckhoff
- Abstract: Artificial neural networks have been shown to be state-of-the-art machine learning models in a wide variety of applications, including natural language processing and image recognition. However, building a performant neural network is a laborious task and requires substantial computing power. Neural Architecture Search (NAS) addresses this issue by an automatic selection of the optimal network from a set of potential candidates. While many NAS

## Adversarially robust neural architectures.pdf
- Title: Adversarially Robust Neural Architectures
- Abstract: —Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) are vulnerable to adversarial attacks. Existing methods are devoted to developing various robust training strategies or regularizations to update the weights of the neural network. But beyond the weights, the overall structure and information flow in the network are explicitly determined by the neural architecture, which remains unexplored Thus, this paper aims to improve the adversarial robustness of the network from the architectural perspective. We explore the relationship among adversarial robustness, Lipschitz constant, and architecture parameters and show that an appropriate constraint on architecture parameters could reduce the Lipschitz constant to further improve the robustness. The importance of architecture parameters could vary from operation to operation or connection to connection. We approximate the Lipschitz constant of the entire network through a univariate log-normal distribution, whose mean and variance are related to architecture parameters. The confidence can be fulfilled through formulating a constraint on the distribution parameters based on the cumulative function
- Keywords: —Adversarial robustness, neural architecture search

## AdvRush Searching for Adversarially Robust Neural Architectures Supplemental.pdf
- Title: Appendices A1. AdvRush Implementation Details

## An Evaluation of Zero-Cost Proxies - from Neural Architecture Performance Prediction to Model Robustness.pdf
- Title: An Evaluation of Zero-Cost Proxies - from Neural Architecture Performance Prediction to Model Robustness
- Abstract: Zero-cost proxies are nowadays frequently studied and used to search for neural architectures. They show an impressive ability to predict the performance of architectures by making use of their untrained weights. These techniques allow for immense search speed-ups. So far the joint search for well performing and robust architectures has received much less attention in the field of NAS. Therefore, the main focus of zero-cost proxies is the clean accuracy of architectures, whereas the model robustness should play an evenly important part. In this paper, we analyze the ability of common zero-cost proxies to serve as performance predictors for robustness in the popular NAS-Bench-201 search space. We are interested in the single prediction task for robustness and the joint multi-objective of clean and robust accuracy. We further analyze the feature importance of the proxies and show that predicting the robustness makes the prediction task from existing zero-cost proxies more challenging As a
- Keywords: Neural architecture search · Zero-cost proxies · Robustness · Multi-objective

## Anti-Bandit Neural Architecture Search for Model Defense.pdf
- Title: Anti-Bandit Neural Architecture Search for Model Defense
- Abstract: Deep convolutional neural networks (DCNNs) have dominated as the best performers in machine learning, but can be challenged by adversarial attacks. In this paper, we defend against adversarial attacks using neural architecture search (NAS) which is based on a comprehensive search of denoising blocks, weight-free operations, Gabor filters and convolutions. The resulting anti-bandit NAS (ABanditNAS) incorporates a new operation evaluation measure and search process based on the lower and upper confidence bounds (LCB and UCB). Unlike the conventional bandit algorithm using UCB for evaluation only, we use UCB to abandon arms for search efficiency and LCB for a fair competition between arms. Extensive
- Keywords: Neural Architecture Search (NAS), Bandit, Adversarial Defense

## AZ-NAS Assembling Zero-Cost Proxies for Network Architecture Search.pdf
- Title: AZ-NAS: Assembling Zero-Cost Proxies for Network Architecture Search
- Abstract: Training-free network architecture search (NAS) aims to discover high-performing networks with zero-cost proxies, capturing network characteristics related to the final performance. However, network rankings estimated by previous training-free NAS methods have shown weak correlations with the performance. To address this issue, we propose AZ-NAS, a novel approach that leverages the ensemble of various zero-cost proxies to enhance the correlation between a predicted ranking of networks and the ground truth substantially in terms of the performance. To achieve this, we introduce four novel zero-cost proxies that are complementary to each other, analyzing distinct traits of architectures in the views of expressivity, progressivity, trainability, and complexity. The proxy scores can be obtained simultaneously within a single forward and backward pass, making an overall NAS process highly efficient. In order to integrate the rankings predicted by our proxies effectively, we introduce a non-linear ranking aggregation method that highlights the networks highly-ranked consistently across all the proxies

## Beyond the Limits Overcoming Negative Correlation of Activation-Based Training-Free NAS.pdf
- Title: Beyond the Limits: Overcoming Negative Correlation of Activation-Based Training-Free NAS
- Abstract: Training-free Neural Architecture Search (NAS) has emerged an efficient way to discover high-performing lightweight models with zero-cost proxies (e.g., the activation-based proxies (AZP)). In this paper, we observe a new negative correlation phenomenon that the correlations of the AZP dramatically decrease to be negative with the increasing number of convolutions, significantly degrading the prediction performance of AZP over target architectures. No existing works focus on such negative correlation and its underlying mechanism. To address this, through deep analysis of the architectural characteristics scored by AZP , we propose a series of AZP design principles and reveal the potential reason of the above phenomenon that high non-linearity dramatically degrades the magnitude of AZP score. Those findings show that existing AZP designs do not obey the proposed principles. Finally, grounded in these insights, we propose a simple yet efficient Negative Correlations-Defied (NCD) method, which utilize stochastic activation masking (SAM) and non-linear rescaling (NIR) to effectively eliminate negative correlation of AZP and significantly improve performance

## Dong 等 - 2025 - Adversarially robust neural architectures.pdf
- Title: Adversarially Robust Neural Architectures
- Abstract: —Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) are vulnerable to adversarial attacks. Existing methods are devoted to developing various robust training strategies or regularizations to update the weights of the neural network. But beyond the weights, the overall structure and information flow in the network are explicitly determined by the neural architecture, which remains unexplored Thus, this paper aims to improve the adversarial robustness of the network from the architectural perspective. We explore the relationship among adversarial robustness, Lipschitz constant, and architecture parameters and show that an appropriate constraint on architecture parameters could reduce the Lipschitz constant to further improve the robustness. The importance of architecture parameters could vary from operation to operation or connection to connection. We approximate the Lipschitz constant of the entire network through a univariate log-normal distribution, whose mean and variance are related to architecture parameters. The confidence can be fulfilled through formulating a constraint on the distribution parameters based on the cumulative function
- Keywords: —Adversarial robustness, neural architecture search

## DSRNA Differentiable Search of Robust Neural Architectures.pdf
- Title: DSRNA: Differentiable Search of Robust Neural Architectures
- Abstract: In deep learning applications, the architectures of deep neural networks are crucial in achieving high accuracy Many methods have been proposed to search for highperformance neural architectures automatically. However , these searched architectures are prone to adversarial attacks. A small perturbation of the input data can render the architecture to change prediction outcomes significantly. To address this problem, we propose methods to perform differentiable search of robust neural architectures. In our

## Feng 等 - 2025 - LRNAS Differentiable Searching for Adversarially Robust Lightweight Neural Architecture.pdf
- Title: LRNAS: Differentiable Searching for Adversarially Robust Lightweight Neural Architecture
- Abstract: — The adversarial robustness is critical to deep neural networks (DNNs) in deployment. However, the improvement of adversarial robustness often requires compromising with the network size. Existing approaches to addressing this problem mainly focus on the combination of model compression and adversarial training. However, their performance heavily relies on neural architectures, which are typically manual designs with extensive expertise. In this article, we propose a lightweight and robust neural architecture search (LRNAS)
- Keywords: — Adversarial attack, adversarial robustness, lightweight neural architecture, neural architecture search (NAS), search space

## Feng 等 - 2025 - REP An Interpretable Robustness Enhanced Plugin for Differentiable Neural Architecture Search.pdf
- Title: REP: An Interpretable Robustness Enhanced Plugin for Differentiable Neural Architecture Search
- Abstract: —Neural architecture search (NAS) is widely used to automate the design of high-accuracy deep architectures, which are often vulnerable to adversarial attacks in practice due to the lack of adversarial robustness. Existing
- Keywords: —Neural architecture search, adversarial attacks, adversarial robustness, search space, robust search primitives

## Feng 等 - 2025 - ZERO-COST PROXY FOR ADVERSARIAL ROBUSTNESS EVALUATION.pdf
- Title: ZERO-COST PROXY FOR ADVERSARIAL ROBUSTNESS EVALUATION
- Abstract: Deep neural networks (DNNs) easily cause security issues due to the lack of adversarial robustness. An emerging research topic for this problem is to design adversarially robust architectures via neural architecture search (NAS), i.e., robust NAS. However, robust NAS needs to train numerous DNNs for robustness estimation, making the search process prohibitively expensive. In this paper, we propose a zero-cost proxy to evaluate the adversarial robustness without training. Specifically, the proposed zero-cost proxy formulates the upper bound of adversarial loss, which can directly reflect the adversarial robustness. The formulation involves only the initialized weights of DNNs, thus the training process is no longer needed. Moreover, we theoretically justify the validity of the proposed proxy based on the theory of neural tangent kernel and input loss landscape. Experimental

## Generalizable Lightweight Proxy for Robust NAS against Diverse Perturbations.pdf
- Title: Generalizable Lightweight Proxy for Robust NAS against Diverse Perturbations
- Abstract: Recent neural architecture search (NAS) frameworks have been successful in finding optimal architectures for given conditions (e.g., performance or latency) However, they search for optimal architectures in terms of their performance on clean images only, while robustness against various types of perturbations or corruptions is crucial in practice. Although there exist several robust NAS frameworks that tackle this issue by integrating adversarial training into one-shot NAS, however, they are limited in that they only consider robustness against adversarial attacks and require significant computational resources to discover optimal architectures for a single task, which makes them impractical in real-world scenarios. To address these challenges, we propose a novel lightweight robust zero-cost proxy that considers the consistency across features, parameters, and gradients of both clean and perturbed images at the initialization state. Our

## Guo_When_NAS_Meets_Robustness_In_Search_of_Robust_Architectures_Against_CVPR_2020_paper.pdf
- Title: When NAS Meets Robustness: In Search of Robust Architectures Against Adversarial Attacks
- Abstract: Recent advances in adversarial attacks uncover the intrinsic vulnerability of modern deep neural networks Since then, extensive efforts have been devoted to enhancing the robustness of deep networks via specialized learning algorithms and loss functions. In this work, we take an architectural perspective and investigate the patterns of network architectures that are resilient to adversarial attacks. To obtain the large number of networks needed for this study, we adopt one-shot neural architecture search, training a large network for once and then finetuning the sub-networks sampled therefrom. The sampled architectures together with the accuracies they achieve provide a rich basis for our study. Our “robust architecture Odyssey” reveals several valuable observations: 1) densely connected patterns result in improved robustness; 2) under computational budget, adding convolution operations to direct connection edge is effective; 3) flow of solution procedure (FSP) matrix is a good indicator of network robustness. Based on these observations, we discover a family of robust architectures (RobNets)

## Ha 等 - Generalizable Lightweight Proxy for Robust NAS against Diverse Perturbations.pdf
- Title: Generalizable Lightweight Proxy for Robust NAS against Diverse Perturbations
- Abstract: Recent neural architecture search (NAS) frameworks have been successful in finding optimal architectures for given conditions (e.g., performance or latency) However, they search for optimal architectures in terms of their performance on clean images only, while robustness against various types of perturbations or corruptions is crucial in practice. Although there exist several robust NAS frameworks that tackle this issue by integrating adversarial training into one-shot NAS, however, they are limited in that they only consider robustness against adversarial attacks and require significant computational resources to discover optimal architectures for a single task, which makes them impractical in real-world scenarios. To address these challenges, we propose a novel lightweight robust zero-cost proxy that considers the consistency across features, parameters, and gradients of both clean and perturbed images at the initialization state. Our

## Hosseini_DSRNA_Differentiable_Search_of_Robust_Neural_Architectures_CVPR_2021_paper.pdf
- Title: DSRNA: Differentiable Search of Robust Neural Architectures
- Abstract: In deep learning applications, the architectures of deep neural networks are crucial in achieving high accuracy Many methods have been proposed to search for highperformance neural architectures automatically. However , these searched architectures are prone to adversarial attacks. A small perturbation of the input data can render the architecture to change prediction outcomes significantly. To address this problem, we propose methods to perform differentiable search of robust neural architectures. In our

## Jiang 等 - MeCo Zero-Shot NAS with One Data and Single Forward Pass via Minimum Eigenvalue of Correlation.pdf
- Title: MeCo: Zero-Shot NAS with One Data and Single Forward Pass via Minimum Eigenvalue of Correlation
- Abstract: Neural Architecture Search (NAS) is a promising paradigm in automatic architecture engineering. Zero-shot NAS can evaluate the network without training via some specific metrics called zero-cost proxies. Though effective, the existing zero-cost proxies either invoke at least one backpropagation or depend highly on the data and labels. To alleviate the above issues, in this paper, we first reveal how the Pearson correlation matrix of the feature maps impacts the convergence rate and the generalization capacity of an over-parameterized neural network. Enlightened by the theoretical analysis, we propose a novel zero-cost proxy calledMeCo, which requires only one random data for a single forward pass. We further propose an optimization

## Jing 等 - 2025 - Zero-Shot Neural Architecture Search with Weighted Response Correlation.pdf
- Title: Zero-Shot Neural Architecture Search with Weighted Response Correlation
- Abstract: Neural architecture search (NAS) is a promising approach for automatically designing neural network architectures. However, the architecture estimation of NAS is computationally expensive and time-consuming because of training multiple architectures from scratch. Although existing zero-shot NAS methods use training-free proxies to accelerate the architecture estimation, their effectiveness, stability, and generality are still lacking. We present a novel training-free estimation proxy called weighted response correlation (WRCor). WRCor utilizes correlation coefficient matrices of responses across different input samples to calculate the proxy scores of estimated architectures, which can measure their expressivity and generalizability. Experimental results on proxy evaluation demonstrate that WRCor and its voting proxies are more efficient estimation strategies than existing proxies. We also apply them with different search strategies in architecture search. Experimental results on architecture search show that our zero-shot NAS algorithm outperforms most existing NAS algorithms in different search spaces

## Kang 等 - Beyond the Limits Overcoming Negative Correlation of Activation-Based Training-Free NAS.pdf
- Title: Beyond the Limits: Overcoming Negative Correlation of Activation-Based Training-Free NAS
- Abstract: Training-free Neural Architecture Search (NAS) has emerged an efficient way to discover high-performing lightweight models with zero-cost proxies (e.g., the activation-based proxies (AZP)). In this paper, we observe a new negative correlation phenomenon that the correlations of the AZP dramatically decrease to be negative with the increasing number of convolutions, significantly degrading the prediction performance of AZP over target architectures. No existing works focus on such negative correlation and its underlying mechanism. To address this, through deep analysis of the architectural characteristics scored by AZP , we propose a series of AZP design principles and reveal the potential reason of the above phenomenon that high non-linearity dramatically degrades the magnitude of AZP score. Those findings show that existing AZP designs do not obey the proposed principles. Finally, grounded in these insights, we propose a simple yet efficient Negative Correlations-Defied (NCD) method, which utilize stochastic activation masking (SAM) and non-linear rescaling (NIR) to effectively eliminate negative correlation of AZP and significantly improve performance

## LLaMA-NAS Efficient Neural Architecture Search for Large Language Models.pdf
- Title: LL AMA-NAS: E FFICIENT NEURAL ARCHITECTURE SEARCH FOR LARGE LANGUAGE MODELS
- Abstract: The abilities of modern large language models (LLMs) in solving natural language processing, complex reasoning, sentiment analysis and other tasks have been extraordinary which has prompted their extensive adoption. Unfortunately, these abilities come with very high memory and computational costs which precludes the use of LLMs on most hardware platforms. To mitigate this, we propose an effective

## LLMENAS Evolutionary Neural Architecture Search via Large Language Model Guidance.pdf
- Title: LLMENAS: Evolutionary Neural Architecture Search via Large Language Model Guidance
- Abstract: —Differentiable Neural Architecture Search (NAS) and traditional evolutionary approaches frequently struggle with premature convergence to local optima. To overcome this limitation, we propose LLMENAS, a hierarchical framework that introduces trajectory-aware fitness design as the upperlevel optimizer. By analyzing the convergence state of historical optimization trajectories, the Large Language Model (LLM) acts as a fitness designer to dynamically design fitness functions. This mechanism enables the search to navigate complex landscapes and escape local optima. Furthermore, we introduce a closedloop self-improving mechanism, enabling the LLM to iteratively enhance its design strategies through self-reflection and selfrefinement based on feedback. Extensive
- Keywords: —Neural architecture search (NAS), Evolutionary strategy, Large language model, image classification

## LRNAS Differentiable Searching for Adversarially Robust Lightweight Neural Architecture.pdf
- Title: LRNAS: Differentiable Searching for Adversarially Robust Lightweight Neural Architecture
- Abstract: — The adversarial robustness is critical to deep neural networks (DNNs) in deployment. However, the improvement of adversarial robustness often requires compromising with the network size. Existing approaches to addressing this problem mainly focus on the combination of model compression and adversarial training. However, their performance heavily relies on neural architectures, which are typically manual designs with extensive expertise. In this article, we propose a lightweight and robust neural architecture search (LRNAS)
- Keywords: — Adversarial attack, adversarial robustness, lightweight neural architecture, neural architecture search (NAS), search space

## MeCo Zero-Shot NAS with One Data and Single Forward Pass via Minimum Eigenvalue of Correlation.pdf
- Title: MeCo: Zero-Shot NAS with One Data and Single Forward Pass via Minimum Eigenvalue of Correlation
- Abstract: Neural Architecture Search (NAS) is a promising paradigm in automatic architecture engineering. Zero-shot NAS can evaluate the network without training via some specific metrics called zero-cost proxies. Though effective, the existing zero-cost proxies either invoke at least one backpropagation or depend highly on the data and labels. To alleviate the above issues, in this paper, we first reveal how the Pearson correlation matrix of the feature maps impacts the convergence rate and the generalization capacity of an over-parameterized neural network. Enlightened by the theoretical analysis, we propose a novel zero-cost proxy calledMeCo, which requires only one random data for a single forward pass. We further propose an optimization

## Mok_AdvRush_Searching_for_ICCV_2021_supplemental.pdf
- Title: Appendices A1. AdvRush Implementation Details

## NEAR A Training-Free Pre-Estimator of Machine Learning Model Performance.pdf
- Title: NEAR: A T RAINING -FREE PRE-ESTIMATOR OF MACHINE LEARNING MODEL PERFORMANCE Raphael T. Husistein, Markus Reiher, and Marco Eckhoff
- Abstract: Artificial neural networks have been shown to be state-of-the-art machine learning models in a wide variety of applications, including natural language processing and image recognition. However, building a performant neural network is a laborious task and requires substantial computing power. Neural Architecture Search (NAS) addresses this issue by an automatic selection of the optimal network from a set of potential candidates. While many NAS

## Neural Architecture Dilation for Adversarial Robustness.pdf
- Title: Neural Architecture Dilation for Adversarial Robustness
- Abstract: With the tremendous advances in the architecture and scale of convolutional neural networks (CNNs) over the past few decades, they can easily reach or even exceed the performance of humans in certain tasks. However, a recently discovered shortcoming of CNNs is that they are vulnerable to adversarial attacks. Although the adversarial robustness of CNNs can be improved by adversarial training, there is a trade-off between standard accuracy and adversarial robustness. From the neural architecture perspective, this paper aims to improve the adversarial robustness of the backbone CNNs that have a satisfactory accuracy. Under a minimal computational overhead, the

## NeurIPS-2021-neural-architecture-dilation-for-adversarial-robustness-Paper.pdf
- Title: Neural Architecture Dilation for Adversarial Robustness
- Abstract: With the tremendous advances in the architecture and scale of convolutional neural networks (CNNs) over the past few decades, they can easily reach or even exceed the performance of humans in certain tasks. However, a recently discovered shortcoming of CNNs is that they are vulnerable to adversarial attacks. Although the adversarial robustness of CNNs can be improved by adversarial training, there is a trade-off between standard accuracy and adversarial robustness. From the neural architecture perspective, this paper aims to improve the adversarial robustness of the backbone CNNs that have a satisfactory accuracy. Under a minimal computational overhead, the

## REP An Interpretable Robustness Enhanced Plugin for Differentiable Neural Architecture Search.pdf
- Title: REP: An Interpretable Robustness Enhanced Plugin for Differentiable Neural Architecture Search
- Abstract: —Neural architecture search (NAS) is widely used to automate the design of high-accuracy deep architectures, which are often vulnerable to adversarial attacks in practice due to the lack of adversarial robustness. Existing
- Keywords: —Neural architecture search, adversarial attacks, adversarial robustness, search space, robust search primitives

## ROME Robustifying Memory-Efficient NAS via Topology Disentanglement and Gradient Accumulation.pdf
- Title: ROME: Robustifying Memory-Efficient NAS via Topology Disentanglement and Gradient Accumulation
- Abstract: Albeit being a prevalent architecture searching approach, differentiable architecture search (DARTS) is largely hindered by its substantial memory cost since the entire supernet resides in the memory. This is where the single-path DARTS comes in, which only chooses a singlepath submodel at each step. While being memory-friendly, it also comes with low computational costs. Nonetheless, we discover a critical issue of single-path DARTS that has not been primarily noticed. Namely, it also suffers from severe performance collapse since too many parameterfree operations like skip connections are derived, just like DARTS does. In this paper, we propose a new algorithm called RObustifying Memory-Efficient NAS (ROME) to give a cure. First, we disentangle the topology search from the operation search to make searching and evaluation consistent. We then adopt Gumbel-Top2 reparameterization and gradient accumulation to robustify the unwieldy bi-level optimization. We verify ROME extensively across 15 benchmarks to demonstrate its effectiveness and robustness

## SWAP-NAS Sample-Wise Activation Patterns for Ultra-Fast NAS.pdf
- Title: SWAP-NAS: S AMPLE -W ISE ACTIVATION PATTERNS FOR ULTRA-FAST NAS
- Abstract: Training-free metrics (a.k.a. zero-cost proxies) are widely used to avoid resourceintensive neural network training, especially in Neural Architecture Search (NAS) Recent studies show that existing training-free metrics have several limitations, such as limited correlation and poor generalisation across different search spaces and tasks. Hence, we propose Sample-Wise Activation Patterns and its derivative, SW AP-Score, a novel high-performance training-free metric. It measures the expressivity of networks over a batch of input samples. The SW AP-Score is strongly correlated with ground-truth performance across various search spaces and tasks, outperforming 15 existing training-free metrics on NAS-Bench-101/201/301 and TransNAS-Bench-101. The SW AP-Score can be further enhanced by regularisation, which leads to even higher correlations in cell-based search space and enables model size control during the search. For example, Spearman’s rank correlation coefficient between regularised SW AP-Score and CIFAR-100 validation accuracies on NAS-Bench-201 networks is 0.90, significantly higher than 0.80 from the second-best metric, NWOT

## Training-free Neural Architecture Search through Variance of Knowledge of Deep Network Weights.pdf
- Title: Training-free Neural Architecture Search through Variance of Knowledge of Deep Network Weights
- Abstract: —Deep learning has revolutionized computer vision, but it achieved its tremendous success using deep network architectures which are mostly hand-crafted and therefore likely suboptimal. Neural Architecture Search (NAS) aims to bridg e this gap by following a well-defined optimization paradigm w hich systematically looks for the best architecture, given obje ctive criterion such as maximal classification accuracy. The main limitation of NAS is however its astronomical computationa l cost, as it typically requires training each candidate netw ork architecture from scratch In this paper , we aim to alleviate this limitation by proposi ng a novel training-free proxy for image classification accurac y based on Fisher Information. The proposed proxy has a strong theoretical

## TRNAS A Training-Free Robust Neural Architecture Search Supplementary Material.pdf
- Title: TRNAS: A Training-Free Robust Neural Architecture Search Supplementary Material

## W-PCA Based Gradient-Free Proxy for Efficient Search of Lightweight Language Models.pdf
- Title: W-PCA B ASED GRADIENT -FREE PROXY FOR EFFICIENT SEARCH OF LIGHTWEIGHT LANGUAGE MODELS Shang Wang
- Abstract: The demand for efficient natural language processing (NLP) systems has led to the development of lightweight language models. Previous work in this area has primarily focused on manual design or training-based neural architecture search (NAS)

## Wang - 2025 - W-PCA BASED GRADIENT-FREE PROXY FOR EFFI- CIENT SEARCH OF LIGHTWEIGHT LANGUAGE MODELS.pdf
- Title: W-PCA B ASED GRADIENT -FREE PROXY FOR EFFICIENT SEARCH OF LIGHTWEIGHT LANGUAGE MODELS Shang Wang
- Abstract: The demand for efficient natural language processing (NLP) systems has led to the development of lightweight language models. Previous work in this area has primarily focused on manual design or training-based neural architecture search (NAS)

## Wang 等 - 2023 - ROME Robustifying Memory-Efficient NAS via Topology Disentanglement and Gradient Accumulation.pdf
- Title: ROME: Robustifying Memory-Efficient NAS via Topology Disentanglement and Gradient Accumulation
- Abstract: Albeit being a prevalent architecture searching approach, differentiable architecture search (DARTS) is largely hindered by its substantial memory cost since the entire supernet resides in the memory. This is where the single-path DARTS comes in, which only chooses a singlepath submodel at each step. While being memory-friendly, it also comes with low computational costs. Nonetheless, we discover a critical issue of single-path DARTS that has not been primarily noticed. Namely, it also suffers from severe performance collapse since too many parameterfree operations like skip connections are derived, just like DARTS does. In this paper, we propose a new algorithm called RObustifying Memory-Efficient NAS (ROME) to give a cure. First, we disentangle the topology search from the operation search to make searching and evaluation consistent. We then adopt Gumbel-Top2 reparameterization and gradient accumulation to robustify the unwieldy bi-level optimization. We verify ROME extensively across 15 benchmarks to demonstrate its effectiveness and robustness

## When NAS Meets Robustness In Search of Robust Architectures against Adversarial Attacks.pdf
- Title: When NAS Meets Robustness: In Search of Robust Architectures Against Adversarial Attacks
- Abstract: Recent advances in adversarial attacks uncover the intrinsic vulnerability of modern deep neural networks Since then, extensive efforts have been devoted to enhancing the robustness of deep networks via specialized learning algorithms and loss functions. In this work, we take an architectural perspective and investigate the patterns of network architectures that are resilient to adversarial attacks. To obtain the large number of networks needed for this study, we adopt one-shot neural architecture search, training a large network for once and then finetuning the sub-networks sampled therefrom. The sampled architectures together with the accuracies they achieve provide a rich basis for our study. Our “robust architecture Odyssey” reveals several valuable observations: 1) densely connected patterns result in improved robustness; 2) under computational budget, adding convolution operations to direct connection edge is effective; 3) flow of solution procedure (FSP) matrix is a good indicator of network robustness. Based on these observations, we discover a family of robust architectures (RobNets)

## Yang_TRNAS_A_Training-Free_ICCV_2025_supplemental.pdf
- Title: TRNAS: A Training-Free Robust Neural Architecture Search Supplementary Material

## ZERO-COST PROXY FOR ADVERSARIAL ROBUSTNESS EVALUATION.pdf
- Title: ZERO-COST PROXY FOR ADVERSARIAL ROBUSTNESS EVALUATION
- Abstract: Deep neural networks (DNNs) easily cause security issues due to the lack of adversarial robustness. An emerging research topic for this problem is to design adversarially robust architectures via neural architecture search (NAS), i.e., robust NAS. However, robust NAS needs to train numerous DNNs for robustness estimation, making the search process prohibitively expensive. In this paper, we propose a zero-cost proxy to evaluate the adversarial robustness without training. Specifically, the proposed zero-cost proxy formulates the upper bound of adversarial loss, which can directly reflect the adversarial robustness. The formulation involves only the initialized weights of DNNs, thus the training process is no longer needed. Moreover, we theoretically justify the validity of the proposed proxy based on the theory of neural tangent kernel and input loss landscape. Experimental
